# 641 Design Circular Deque

Design your implementation of the circular double-ended queue (deque).

Implement the MyCircularDeque class:

* MyCircularDeque(int k) Initializes the deque with a maximum size of k.
* boolean insertFront() Adds an item at the front of Deque. Returns true if the operation is successful, or false otherwise.
* boolean insertLast() Adds an item at the rear of Deque. Returns true if the operation is successful, or false otherwise.
* boolean deleteFront() Deletes an item from the front of Deque. Returns true if the operation is successful, or false otherwise.
* boolean deleteLast() Deletes an item from the rear of Deque. Returns true if the operation is successful, or false otherwise.
* int getFront() Returns the front item from the Deque. Returns -1 if the deque is empty.
* int getRear() Returns the last item from Deque. Returns -1 if the deque is empty.
* boolean isEmpty() Returns true if the deque is empty, or false otherwise.
* boolean isFull() Returns true if the deque is full, or false otherwise.
 
 
[LeetCode](https://leetcode.cn/problems/design-circular-deque/)

### Example 1

>Input  
["MyCircularDeque", "insertLast", "insertLast", "insertFront", "insertFront", "getRear", "isFull", "deleteLast", "insertFront", "getFront"]  
[[3], [1], [2], [3], [4], [], [], [], [4], []]  
Output  
[null, true, true, true, false, 2, true, true, true, 4]  

### Constraints

* 1 <= k <= 1000
* 0 <= value <= 1000
* At most 2000 calls will be made to insertFront, insertLast, deleteFront, deleteLast, getFront, getRear, isEmpty, isFull.

### C++ 

```
class MyCircularDeque {
protected:
    vector<int> deque;
    int mod;
    int frontPtr{0};
    int backPtr{0};
public:
    MyCircularDeque(int k): deque(k + 1), mod(k + 1){
        // 作幣的方式是使用 list, 在此我們使用循環隊列的概念
        // 循環隊列的真實長度為 K + 1，設兩個指針，front以及指將放置的位置back
        // 如果front == back目前為空
        // 如果 back + 1 % 真實長度 == front 隊列滿了
    }    
    bool insertFront(int value) {
        if((backPtr + 1) % mod == frontPtr)
            return false;
        
        frontPtr = (--frontPtr + mod) % mod;
        deque[frontPtr] = value;
        return true;
    }
    
    bool insertLast(int value) {
        if((backPtr + 1) % mod == frontPtr)
            return false;
        
        deque[backPtr++] = value;
        backPtr %= mod;
        return true;
    }
    
    bool deleteFront() {
        if(frontPtr == backPtr)
            return false;

        frontPtr = ++frontPtr % mod;
        return true;
    }
    
    bool deleteLast() {
        if(frontPtr == backPtr)
            return false;
        
        backPtr = (--backPtr + mod) % mod;
        return true;
    }
    
    int getFront() {
        if(frontPtr == backPtr)
            return -1;
        
        return deque[frontPtr];
    }
    
    int getRear() {
        if(frontPtr == backPtr)
            return -1;
        
        return deque[(backPtr - 1 + mod) % mod];
    }
    
    bool isEmpty() {
        return frontPtr == backPtr;
    }
    
    bool isFull() {
        return (backPtr + 1) % mod == frontPtr;
    }
};

/**
 * Your MyCircularDeque object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * MyCircularDeque* obj = new MyCircularDeque(k);
 * bool param_1 = obj->insertFront(value);
 * bool param_2 = obj->insertLast(value);
 * bool param_3 = obj->deleteFront();
 * bool param_4 = obj->deleteLast();
 * int param_5 = obj->getFront();
 * int param_6 = obj->getRear();
 * bool param_7 = obj->isEmpty();
 * bool param_8 = obj->isFull();
 */
```